.TH XGODO 1 "January 2024" "xgodo 1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
xgodo \- CLI tool for Xgodo platform
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xgodo
[\fIcommand\fR] [\fIsubcommand\fR] [\fIoptions\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B xgodo
is a command-line tool for the Xgodo platform. It enables developers to work on
automation projects locally using their preferred IDE, with seamless synchronization
to the web-based editor.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS Authentication
.TP
.B login
Login with your API key. Use \fB-k\fR to provide key directly or enter interactively.
.TP
.B logout
Logout and clear stored credentials.
.TP
.B whoami
Display the currently logged-in user's name and email.
.SS Project Management (xgodo project | xgodo p)
.TP
.B project list\fR, \fBproject ls\fR, \fBp ls
List all automation projects you have access to (owner or editor).
.TP
.B project clone\fR [\fIproject-id\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIpath\fR]
Clone an automation project to a local directory. If no project ID is specified,
shows an interactive selection prompt. If no path is specified, creates a
directory with the normalized project name.
.TP
.B project sync
Synchronize local changes with the server. Uploads modified files and
downloads type definitions.
.TP
.B project commit\fR [\fB-m\fR \fImessage\fR] [\fB-f\fR]
Commit changes to the project. Use \fB-m\fR to provide a message directly,
\fB-f\fR to use a default message, or enter interactively.
.SS Template Management (xgodo project template | xgodo p t)
.TP
.B project template list\fR, \fBp t ls
List available templates.
.TP
.B project template apply\fR [\fItemplate-id\fR]
Apply a template to the current project.
.SS Shell Completions
.TP
.B completion install
Install tab completions for your shell (bash, zsh, fish). After installation,
pressing Tab will auto-complete commands, subcommands, project IDs, and template IDs.
.TP
.B completion uninstall
Remove shell completions.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Display help for the command.
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Display version number.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Login with API key:
.RS
.nf
xgodo login
xgodo login -k YOUR_API_KEY
.fi
.RE
.PP
List and clone a project:
.RS
.nf
xgodo project list
xgodo p ls
xgodo project clone                               # Interactive selection
xgodo project clone 507f1f77bcf86cd799439011
xgodo p clone 507f1f77bcf86cd799439011 -p ./my-project
.fi
.RE
.PP
Sync and commit changes:
.RS
.nf
xgodo project sync
xgodo p sync
xgodo project commit -m "Add new feature"
xgodo p commit -f  # Use default message
.fi
.RE
.PP
Work with templates:
.RS
.nf
xgodo project template list
xgodo p t ls
xgodo project template apply                      # Interactive selection
xgodo project template apply 507f1f77bcf86cd799439022
.fi
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/xgodo/config.json
Stores authentication credentials and API settings.
.TP
.I .xgodo/project.json
Project-specific metadata (created in each cloned project).
.TP
.I .xgodo/hashes.json
File hashes for change detection.
.TP
.I types/node-types.ts
Static type definitions for the automation API.
.TP
.I types/bootstrap.ts
Dynamic bootstrap type definitions.
.TP
.I types/arguments.ts
Auto-generated type definitions for agent.arguments based on the project's
automation parameters and job variables schemas.
.SH WORKFLOW
.PP
1. Login with your API key:
.RS
xgodo login
.RE
.PP
2. List your projects:
.RS
xgodo project list
.RE
.PP
3. Clone a project:
.RS
xgodo project clone <project-id>
.RE
.PP
4. Edit files in your favorite IDE
.PP
5. Sync changes:
.RS
xgodo project sync
.RE
.PP
6. Commit when ready:
.RS
xgodo project commit -m "Description of changes"
.RE
.SH SYNC BEHAVIOR
.PP
The sync command uses git-compatible SHA-1 hashes to detect file changes.
Only modified files are uploaded to minimize bandwidth. TypeScript files
are automatically compiled to JavaScript on the server.
.PP
Type definition files (\fInode-types.ts\fR and \fIbootstrap.ts\fR) are
downloaded automatically and stored in the \fItypes/\fR directory.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success
.TP
.B 1
Error occurred
.SH AUTHOR
Xgodo Team
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR npm (1)
